 Prudential Financial, Inc. (NYSE:PRU) today reported a net loss of its Financial Services Businesses attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. of $5 million for the first quarter of 2009, compared to net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. of $68 million for the year-ago quarter. Net income per Common share was 1 cent for the first quarter of 2009 and 18 cents for the year-ago quarter. After-tax adjusted operating income for the Financial Services Businesses was $436 million ($1.05 per Common share) for the first quarter of 2009, compared to $692 million ($1.57 per Common share) for the first quarter of 2008. Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure as discussed below. "While our current quarter results continue to reflect unfavorable market and economic conditions, our solid balance sheet and product portfolio support highly attractive value propositions for clients focused on financial security and peace of mind. We view the positive net flows registered by our U.S. retirement, annuities and asset management businesses and the solid sales results in our domestic and international insurance businesses as validation of our core business models, as well as the dedication of our associates in these difficult times. We are focused on maintaining and bolstering the financial strength that has supported our commitment to keep our promises for more than 130 years," said Chairman and Chief Executive Officer John Strangfeld. "Considering current financial market conditions, including equity market levels, interest rates and credit spreads, we believe that Prudential Financial will achieve Common Stock earnings per share for 2009 in the range of $4.80 to $5.20 based on after-tax adjusted operating income of the Financial Services Businesses. This expectation assumes appreciation of 2% per quarter in the S&P 500 index, commencing with its close as of December 31, 2008," Strangfeld said. The 2009 expectation is subject to change if this assumption is not realized and as discussed under "Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures" below. Adjusted operating income is not calculated under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Information regarding adjusted operating income, a non-GAAP measure, is discussed later in this press release under "Forward-Looking Statements and Non-GAAP Measures," and a reconciliation of adjusted operating income to the most comparable GAAP measure is provided in the tables that accompany this release. Financial Services BusinessesPrudential Financial's Common Stock (NYSE:PRU) reflects the performance of its Financial Services Businesses, which consist of its U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management, U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance, and International Insurance and Investments divisions and its Corporate and Other operations. Reported results for the first quarter of 2009 and earlier periods presented reflect the implementation of new accounting guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board, as discussed under "New Accounting Guidance" later in this release. In the following business-level discussion, adjusted operating income refers to pre-tax results. The U.S. Retirement Solutions and Investment Management division reported adjusted operating income of $175 million for the first quarter of 2009, compared to $358 million in the year-ago quarter. The Individual Annuities segment reported adjusted operating income of $17 million in the current quarter, compared to $115 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results include charges of $215 million to strengthen reserves for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits and $112 million representing a net increase in amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs reflecting an updated estimate of profitability for this business. These charges were largely driven by declines in customer account values through March 31, 2009. Results for the year-ago quarter included net charges of $15 million from adjustment of these items to recognize experience in that period. Mark-to-market of embedded derivatives and related hedge positions associated with living benefits, after amortization of deferred policy acquisition and other costs, resulted in a net benefit of $261 million to current quarter adjusted operating income, which included a benefit of $236 million from the required adjustment of embedded derivative liabilities for living benefits to recognize market-based non-performance risk associated with our own credit standing. Results for the year-ago quarter included net charges of $17 million from mark-to-market of these embedded derivatives and related hedge positions. Excluding the effect of the foregoing items, adjusted operating income for the Individual Annuities segment declined $64 million from the year-ago quarter, primarily reflecting lower fees driven by market value declines in customer account values. The Retirement segment reported adjusted operating income of $159 million for the current quarter, an increase of $35 million from the year-ago quarter. The increase primarily resulted from a greater contribution from net investment spreads, which more than offset lower fees associated with market value declines in customer account values. In addition, current quarter results benefited $13 million from the required adjustment of liabilities for contract guarantees to recognize market-based non-performance risk. The Asset Management segment reported a loss of $1 million for the current quarter, compared to adjusted operating income of $119 million for the year-ago quarter. The decrease came primarily from lower performance-based fees, primarily related to institutional real estate funds, and less favorable results from proprietary investing activities. In addition, asset management fees were below the level of the year-ago quarter, reflecting market value declines in assets under management which more than offset net inflows of institutional funds. The U.S. Individual Life and Group Insurance division reported adjusted operating income of $133 million for the first quarter of 2009, compared to $186 million in the year-ago quarter. The Individual Life segment reported adjusted operating income of $40 million for the current quarter, compared to $96 million in the year-ago quarter. The decrease came primarily from higher net amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and other items relating to current quarter experience, together with related costs, driven by unfavorable separate account performance. In addition, current quarter results reflected less favorable mortality experience than that of the year-ago quarter, and lower fees associated with customer account values because of market value declines. The Group Insurance segment reported adjusted operating income of $93 million in the current quarter, compared to $90 million in the year-ago quarter. Current quarter results benefited from more favorable group life and disability claims experience than in the year-ago quarter, while results for the year-ago quarter included a $20 million benefit from a cumulative adjustment of premiums for earlier periods on a large group life insurance case. The International Insurance and Investments division reported adjusted operating income of $435 million for the first quarter of 2009, compared to $439 million in the year-ago quarter. The International Insurance segment reported adjusted operating income of $425 million for the current quarter, an increase of $12 million from the year-ago quarter. The segment's Life Planner insurance operations reported adjusted operating income of $294 million for the current quarter, an increase of $9 million from the year-ago quarter, reflecting continued business growth which was partially offset by current quarter expenses related to technology improvements and the estimated liability for Japanese guaranty fund assessments. The segment's Gibraltar Life operations reported adjusted operating income of $131 million for the current quarter, compared to $128 million in the year-ago quarter. A greater contribution from investment results, reflecting portfolio strategies including increased investing in U.S. dollar-based securities, was largely offset by a less favorable level of expenses and policy benefits. Foreign currency exchange rates, including the impact of the Company's currency hedging programs, did not have a significant effect on the comparison of results for the segment's international insurance businesses. The International Investments segment reported adjusted operating income of $10 million for the current quarter, compared to $26 million in the year-ago quarter. The decrease resulted primarily from less favorable results from the segment's Korean asset management operations. Corporate and Other operations resulted in a loss, on an adjusted operating income basis, of $166 million in the first quarter of 2009, compared to a loss of $51 million in the year-ago quarter. The increased loss came primarily from increased interest expense, net of investment income, reflecting a greater level of capital debt including $1.5 billion of junior subordinated long-term debt securities issued in 2008, and lower earnings from the investment of debt issuance proceeds. The increase in net financing costs was partly offset by a $7 million benefit to current quarter results from the repurchase of $245 million original principal amount of Prudential Financial convertible debt securities due in 2037 which were offered to the Company by certain holders in individually negotiated transactions at a discount. The Company's real estate and relocation business reported a loss of $63 million for the current quarter, compared to a loss of $23 million in the year-ago quarter, reflecting unfavorable residential real estate market conditions. Assets under management amounted to $542 billion at March 31, 2009, compared to $558 billion at December 31, 2008. The net loss of the Financial Services Businesses attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. amounted to $5 million for the first quarter of 2009, compared to net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. of $68 million in the year-ago quarter. The current quarter net loss includes $666 million of pre-tax net realized investment losses and related charges and adjustments. Net realized investment losses in the current quarter include $719 million of losses from impairments and sales of credit-impaired investments and $138 million representing decreases in market value of certain externally managed investments in the European market. The losses from impairments and sales of credit-impaired securities reflect $465 million on fixed maturity investments, including $240 million relating to asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages, and $253 million of impairments on equity securities. The foregoing realized investment losses were partially offset by net realized gains from general account portfolio activities during the quarter. At March 31, 2009, gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $11.248 billion, including $8.462 billion on investment-grade securities. Gross unrealized losses include $2.634 billion related to asset-backed securities collateralized by sub-prime mortgages. Gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses at March 31, 2009 include $7.780 billion of declines in value of 20% or more of amortized cost, of which $6.953 billion represents such declines in value for three months or more. Gross unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $11.251 billion at year-end 2008. Net unrealized losses on general account fixed maturity investments of the Financial Services Businesses amounted to $7.514 billion at March 31, 2009, compared to $6.567 billion at December 31, 2008. The net loss for the current quarter also reflects pre-tax increases of $145 million in recorded asset values and $45 million in recorded liabilities representing changes in value which are expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders. These changes primarily represent interest rate related mark-to-market adjustments. The net loss for the current quarter also includes $32 million of pre-tax losses from divested businesses, primarily reflecting a $25 million pre-tax loss from the Company's retail securities brokerage joint venture with Wachovia and related costs. On January 1, 2008, Wachovia combined the acquired retail securities brokerage business of A.G. Edwards, Inc. with the joint venture. The Company's estimated share of the results of the joint venture and transition costs, subsequent to this combination, is based on a diluted ownership level which is currently being finalized. As previously announced, the Company intends to exercise its right under the "lookback" option to put its joint venture interests to Wells Fargo, which acquired Wachovia on December 31, 2008. Under the terms of the joint venture agreements, closing of the put transaction would occur on or about January 1, 2010. The current quarter loss reflects absorption, through our estimated share of joint venture results, of $17 million of transition costs related to Wachovia's acquisition of A. G. Edwards. Net income of the Financial Services Businesses for the year-ago quarter included $678 million of pre-tax net realized investment losses and related charges and adjustments, decreases of $262 million in recorded assets and $200 million in recorded liabilities for which changes in value are expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders, and losses of $67 million from divested businesses, in each case before income taxes. Closed Block Business Prudential's Class B Stock, which is not traded on any exchange, reflects the performance of its Closed Block Business. The Closed Block Business includes our in-force participating life insurance and annuity policies, and assets that are being used for the payment of benefits and policyholder dividends on these policies, as well as other assets and equity that support these policies. We have ceased offering these participating policies. The Closed Block Business reported income from continuing operations before income taxes of $30 million for the first quarter of 2009, compared to a loss from continuing operations before income taxes of $26 million for the year-ago quarter. The Closed Block Business reported net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. for the first quarter of 2009 of $19 million, compared to a net loss attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. of $8 million for the year-ago quarter. Consolidated Results There is no legal separation of the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, and holders of the Common Stock and the Class B Stock are both common stockholders of Prudential Financial, Inc. On a consolidated basis, which includes the results of both the Financial Services Businesses and the Closed Block Business, Prudential Financial, Inc. reported net income attributable to Prudential Financial, Inc. of $14 million for the first quarter of 2009 compared to $60 million for the year-ago quarter. New Accounting Guidance Effective January 1, 2009, the company adopted new FASB guidance for determination of whether markets are considered "inactive" and whether transactions in those markets are considered "distressed" for purposes of measuring the fair value of assets or liabilities ("FSP FAS 157-4"), and for the recognition of other-than-temporary impairment of debt securities ("FSP FAS 115-2 and FAS 124-2"). The latter guidance requires a bifurcation of other than temporary declines in value of debt securities, in instances where the company neither intends to sell the security nor is more likely than not to be required to sell the security, prior to recovery of book value. Under this guidance, the portion of the decline in value that represents a reduction of expected cash flows from the security is to be recognized by a charge to net income, while the remainder of the decline in value is recognized within accumulated other comprehensive income. As a result of the transition adjustment required by this guidance, attributed equity of the Financial Services Businesses excluding total accumulated other comprehensive income as of January 1, 2009 was increased by $675 million, with a corresponding reduction to accumulated other comprehensive income. This transition adjustment reflected $1.1 billion of previously recorded other-than-temporary impairments on debt securities, on a pretax basis, representing the portion of decline in fair value of the securities that is not associated with an estimated decrease in expected cash flows. During the first quarter of 2009, declines in value of debt securities held by the Financial Services Businesses for which other-than-temporary impairments were determined to have occurred amounted to $1.1 billion on a pre-tax basis, of which $424 million represented reductions in expected cash flows and were consequently included in realized investment losses, while the remaining $658 million was recorded within accumulated other comprehensive income. In addition, effective January 1, 2009, the company adopted new FASB guidance for convertible debt securities ("FSP APB 14-1"). This guidance requires bifurcation of certain convertible debt instruments, including those issued by the company in 2006 and 2007, into a debt component and an equity component. The retroactive implementation of this guidance, as required by FASB, resulted in an increase in interest expense within Corporate and Other results, with a corresponding negative impact on pretax adjusted operating income, of $15 million for the first quarter of 2008. The adoption of this guidance also resulted in a decrease of $20 million in reported short-term debt of the Financial Services Businesses as of December 31, 2008, with a corresponding increase in additional paid-in capital. Forward-looking statements are made based on management's current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects upon Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries. There can be no assurance that future developments affecting Prudential Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries will be those anticipated by management. As noted above, the adverse market and economic conditions that began in the second half of 2007 have continued and substantially worsened since then. The foregoing risks are even more pronounced in these unprecedented market and economic conditions. Prudential Financial, Inc. does not intend, and is under no obligation, to update any particular forward-looking statement included in this document. Adjusted operating income is a non-GAAP measure of performance of our Financial Services Businesses. Adjusted operating income excludes "Realized investment gains (losses), net," as adjusted, and related charges and adjustments. A significant element of realized investment gains and losses are impairments and credit-related and interest rate-related gains and losses. Impairments and losses from sales of credit-impaired securities, the timing of which depends largely on market credit cycles, can vary considerably across periods. The timing of other sales that would result in gains or losses, such as interest rate-related gains or losses, is largely subject to our discretion and influenced by market opportunities as well as our tax and capital profile. Realized investment gains (losses) representing profit or loss of certain of our businesses which primarily originate investments for sale or syndication to unrelated investors, and those associated with terminating hedges of foreign currency earnings and current period yield adjustments are included in adjusted operating income. Realized investment gains and losses from products that are free standing derivatives or contain embedded derivatives, and from associated derivative portfolios that are part of an economic hedging program related to the risk of those products, are included in adjusted operating income. Adjusted operating income excludes gains and losses from changes in value of certain assets and liabilities related to foreign currency exchange movements that have been economically hedged, as well as gains and losses on certain investments that are classified as other trading account assets and debt that is carried at fair value. Adjusted operating income also excludes investment gains and losses on trading account assets supporting insurance liabilities and changes in experience-rated contractholder liabilities due to asset value changes, because these recorded changes in asset and liability values are expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders. Trends in the underlying profitability of our businesses can be more clearly identified without the fluctuating effects of these transactions. In addition, adjusted operating income excludes the results of divested businesses, which are not relevant to our ongoing operations. Discontinued operations, which is presented as a separate component of net income under GAAP, is also excluded from adjusted operating income. We believe that the presentation of adjusted operating income as we measure it for management purposes enhances understanding of the results of operations of the Financial Services Businesses by highlighting the results from ongoing operations and the underlying profitability of our businesses. However, adjusted operating income is not a substitute for income determined in accordance with GAAP, and the excluded items are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations. The schedules accompanying this release provide a reconciliation of adjusted operating income for the Financial Services Businesses to income from continuing operations in accordance with GAAP. Our expectation of Common Stock earnings per share is based on after-tax adjusted operating income. Because we do not predict future realized investment gains / losses or recorded changes in asset and liability values that are expected to ultimately accrue to contractholders, we cannot provide a measure of our Common Stock earnings per share expectation based on income from continuing operations of the Financial Services Businesses, which is the GAAP measure most comparable to adjusted operating income. Additional historical information relating to our financial performance is located on our Web site at www.investor.prudential.com. 